

1 
 
TOWN OF NORTH CASTLE 
 
Local Law No. __8__ For the Year 2024 
Adopted November 20, 2024 
 
A LOCAL LAW to amend the Code of the Town of North Castle by amending Chapter 
146 entitled Dogs. 
 
BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of North Castle as follows: 
 
1. Section146-6 Dogs at Large subsection A is hereby amended to add at the end of the 
subsection “. . . unless in the Town’s dog park.” 
 
2. Section 146-9 Dog Park Rules and Regulations is hereby added: 
 
NORTH CASTLE DOG PARK RULES & REGULATIONS 
 
1. The dog park is open from dawn to dusk, 7 days a week. 
2. Any person bringing a dog into this dog park assumes full legal responsibility for 
any damage, disease or injury to persons, other dogs, or property. 
3. ALL dogs  MUST  have  a  license  tag  through  their  municipality  of  residence  on  
them at ALL TIMES. Any dog or owner who cannot produce proof of license at 
any time in the park will be required to vacate. 
4. Dogs must be leashed leaving their car and walking in parking lot until inside dog 
park. 
5. Leash/Unleash your dog inside the gated holding areas. Do NOT open the outside 
gate if the inside gate is open. 
6. Dogs  must  be  accompanied  by  an  owner  18  years  or  older  in  the  dog  park.  No  
children under the age of 8. Never leave a dog unattended. 
7. Owners MUST CLEAN UP AFTER THEIR DOGS. Waste must be bagged, tied 
and disposed of in the trash receptacles. 
8. Aggressive  dogs  are  NOT  allowed  in  the  dog  park.  Dogs  exhibiting  aggressive  
behavior must be removed IMMEDIATELY. 
9. Dogs in heat, puppies under 6 months of age or any dog not fully vaccinated are 
NOT permitted in the dog park. 
10. Limit is 3 dogs per owner, per visit. 
11. No dog over 30 lbs are permitted in the small dog park section. 
12. Dogs must be discouraged from digging and excessive barking – owners to fill 
holes or remove barking dogs. 
13. No dog food or treats are allowed in the dog park. No eating or picnicking is 
permitted in the enclosures at any time. 
14. Be cautious with dog toys, as some dogs don’t like to share. 
15. Use of the Dog Park is a privilege, not a right. Violators will be prosecuted to the 
full extent of the law. 
 
3. Effective Date. This local law shall be effective upon filing of same with the Secretary of 
State of the State of New York. 
 