

TOWN OF NORTH CASTLE 
 
Local Law No. __6__ For the Year 2024 
Adopted October 23, 2024 
 
 
A Local Law to amend Chapter 60, Officers and Employees, of the Code of the Town of North Castle 
to establish residency requirements for Assistant Building Inspector and Fire Inspector titles within 
the Building Department. 
 
BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of North Castle as follows: 
 
Section 1. Amend Chapter 60 Article VI as follows: 
 
Article VI Residency Requirements for Building Department Job Titles  
 
§ 60-13 Purpose. 
 
It is the purpose of this article to modify the requirements of § 23 of the Town Law and 
§ 3 of the Public Officers Law, which sections require that the Building Inspector, 
Assistant Building Inspector and Fire Inspector be a resident and elector within the 
Town. 
 
§ 60-14 Authority. 
 
This article is enacted pursuant to the provisions of § 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

§ 60-15 RESERVED 
 
 
§ 60-16 Residency requirements. 
 
In the Town of North Castle, Westchester County, the provisions of this article requiring 
a person to be resident of the political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state 
for which he shall be chosen or within which his official functions are required to be 
exercised shall not prevent a person from holding the office of Town Building Inspector, 
Assistant Building Inspector or Fire Inspector of the Town of North Castle, provided that 
such person resides within the State of New York. 
 
Section 2. Conflicting Standards. 
 
Where the requirements of this Local Law impose a   different restriction or requirement than 
imposed by other sections of the Code of the Town of North Castle, the Town Law of the 
State of New York or other applicable rules or regulations, the requirements of this Local Law 
shall prevail. 
 
Section 3. Severability. 
 
The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this 
local law shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given 
effect without such invalid part or parts. 
 
Section 4. Effective Date. 
 
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and filing with the 
Secretary of State. 
 
 
 