

1 
 
TOWN OF NORTH CASTLE 
 
Local Law No. __1__ For the Year 2025 
Adopted February 12, 2025 
 
A LOCAL LAW to rezone 23 Bedford Banksville Road from the CB-B Zoning District 
and GB Zoning District to the CB-B Zoning District, to permit Light Industrial Uses in the CB-B 
Zoning District and to create Light Industrial Special Use Permit Requirements for the CB-B 
Zoning District. 
 
BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of North Castle as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Amend the “Zoning Map of the Town of North Castle, New York,” as established in 
Section 355-6 of the Town Zoning Code, so as to reclassify all of lot 102.04-1-  9 from the CB-B 
and GB Zoning Districts to the CB-B Zoning District.  
 
Section 2.  Amend Section 355-22 of the Town Code to include the following use in the 
CB-B Zoning District: 
 
*  Wood processing  
*   Assemblage of pre-cut metal and aluminum. 
 
Section 3.    Amend  Section  355-4  of  the  Town  Code  to  include  the  following  new  
definitions in proper alphabetical order:   
 
Wood processing -   wood processing, including receipt and indoor storage of treated wood, 
application of bleach, sanding, stain and topcoat of specimens. 
 
Assemblage of pre-cut metal and aluminum -  Metal assemblage, including receipt and indoor 
storage  of  metal  and  aluminum,  assemblage  of  either  product  which  may  require welding 
and/or cutting. 
 
Section 4.    Amend  Section  355-57  of  the  Town  Code  to  add  Wood  processing,  and  
assemblage  of  pre-cut  metal  and  aluminum  to  the  off-street  parking  requirements  as  
follows: 
 
Wood processing 1 space per 1,200 square feet of gross floor 
area. 
 
 
Assemblage of pre-cut metal and aluminum. 1 space per 1,200 square feet of gross floor 
area. 
 
Section 5.  Create the following new Section 355-40.AB in the Town Code as follows: 
 
AB.     Wood  processing,  and  Assemblage  of  pre-cut  metal  and  aluminum uses.    In  zones  
where  permitted,  wood  processing,  and  assemblage  of  pre-cut  metal  and  aluminum  
uses shall be subject to the following additional requirements: 
 
(1)  Lot location and size. The site of a wood processing, and assemblage of pre-cut metal 
and aluminum use shall only be permitted within a 1-story building constructed prior 
to January 1, 1990 and not subjected subsequently expanded with a minimum gross 
floor  area  of  15,000  square  feet,   and shall  be  limited  to  no  more  than  60%  of  any  
building.   
 
(2)  Density.  The  Town  Board  shall  find  that  any  building  accommodating  a  wood  
processing, and assemblage of pre-cut metal and aluminum use shall have a maximum 
occupancy of 20 people at one time.  
 

2 
 
(3)  Operation plan. The applicant for a wood processing, and assemblage of pre-cut metal 
and  aluminum  shall  submit  a  preliminary  operation  plan  identifying  proposed  
operations, hours, capacity and staffing requirements. All chemicals shall be stored, 
vented, applied and disposed of properly.   
 
(4)  Parking. Parking  shall  be  provided  pursuant  to  Section  355-57  of  the  Town  Code  
unless a greater or lesser number is found by the Town Board to be warranted based 
on review of the operation plan.  
 
(5)  Exterior lighting and access. Exterior lighting shall be of such a nature as to minimize 
impact  upon  adjoining  landowners.    Wood  processing,  and  Assemblage  of  pre-cut 
metal  and  aluminum  uses  shall  have  direct    individual  access  to  the  outside  of  the    
building and be limited to operating on the first floor. 
 
(6)  Site plan. The review and approval of a site plan by the Planning Board shall be made 
a condition of the issuance of a special use permit. 
 
Section 6.  Conflicting Standards. 
 
Where the requirements of this Local Law impose a different restriction or requirement than imposed 
by other sections of the Code of the Town of North Castle, the Town Law of the State of New York or 
other applicable rules or regulations, the requirements of this Local Law shall prevail.  
 
Section 7.  Severability. 
 
The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this local law 
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given effect without such 
invalid part or parts. 
 
Section 8.  Effective Date. 
 
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and filing with the Secretary of State. 
  
Dated:  February 12, 2025  
 