

  
TOWN OF NORTH CASTLE 
 
Local Law No. __2__ For the Year 2026 
Adopted March 11, 2026 
 
A LOCAL LAW to revise the Town Code to create regulations relating to the short-term 
rental of homes within the Town of North Castle. 
 
 BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of North Castle as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Amend Section 127-10.A(1)(i) of the Town Code to read as follows: 
 
(i) Short-term rental of dwellings as defined in Section 355-26.J of the Town Code. 
 
Section 2. Renumber Section 127-10.A(1)(i) to Section 127-10.A(1)(j). 
 
Section 3. Amend Section 355-26 to add subsection K, as follows: 
 
K. On-site recreational facilities. It   shall be unlawful  for  the  owner  of  any  residential  property 
to offer for use, rental, or lease, or to advertise for use, rental, or lease, any portion of 
the residential property, such as a pool, hot tub, yard, or sports court, separate and apart 
from a permitted use, rental, or lease of the residential property. 
 
Section 4. Create the following new Section 355-26.J of the Town Code as follows: 
 
J. Short-Term Rentals 
 
(1) Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings 
indicated: 
 
SHORT-TERM  RENTAL  -- Rental  of  any  dwelling  unit,  including  any  residential  
building or apartment, single- or two-family dwelling, condominium, townhouse, guest 
house, cottage, barn, accessory dwelling unit or accessory apartment (see definition of 
Accessory Apartment), in whole or part, to any person, persons or entity for a period of 
less than 30 consecutive nights. 
 
 
(2) Purposes. 
 
The purpose of this section is to legalize and regulate short-term rentals in the Town of 
North Castle and ensure that short-term rental units meet applicable community, health, 
fire and safety standards. 
  

  
 
(3) Operating Permit required. 
 
No short-term rental is permitted to be established, maintained, operated or advertised 
unless it complies with the requirements of this section and until it obtains an operating 
permit pursuant to Section 127-10 of the Town Code. 
 
(4) Registration required. 
 
No short-term rental is permitted to be established, maintained, operated or advertised 
unless  it  complies  with  the  requirements  of  this  section  and  until  it  is  registered  in  
accordance with this article. 
 
(5) Requirements for short-term rental registration. 
 
A short-term rental unit may be registered only if the following requirements are met: 
 
A. The applicant must provide an affidavit or affirmation attesting that the dwelling 
in  which  the  short-term  rental  unit  is  located  is  the  primary  residence  of  the 
lessor. 
 
B. No short-term rental unit shall be permitted until two years after the issuance of 
the initial certificate of occupancy for the principal dwelling unit, and no short- 
term rental unit shall be permitted in a structure until at least one year after the 
current owner has acquired title to the property, whichever comes later. 
 
C. The dwelling unit, and the building in which it is located, must be in compliance 
with the Town Code, the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building 
Code,  and  the  Property  Maintenance  Code  of  New  York  State.  No  short-term 
rental  permit  may  be  issued  until,  either  the  Building  Inspector  inspects  the  
property and determines that the structure and the dwelling unit proposed to be 
the  subject  of  the  short-term  rental  are  in  compliance  with  those  laws  or  the  
applicant provides to the Building Inspector a certification, on a form approved 
by  the  Building  Inspector  and  signed  by  either  a  New  York  State  licensed  
professional engineer or New York State licensed architect who has a valid New 
York State Uniform Fire Prevention Building Code, certifying that the structure 
and the dwelling unit proposed to be the subject of the short-term rental are in 
compliance with those laws. 
 
D. For  one-family  (attached  and  detached)  and  two-family  dwellings,  no  exterior  
changes,  including  exterior  lighting,  shall  be  made  to  the  dwelling  that  would  
alter the one- or two-family character and appearance of the residence. 
 
E. No sign other than a signs permitted by § 355-16 shall be allowed. 
  

  
 
F. There shall be only one short-term rental permit issued per property at any one 
time. If    a property has more than one dwelling unit, the permit issued shall be 
limited for one dwelling unit only. 
 
G. A short-term rental is not permitted on the same lot as an accessory apartment. 
 
H. Occupancy  Tax  Registration.  No  permit  shall  be  issued  unless  the  short-term 
rental property is registered with the Occupancy Tax Program administered by 
Westchester County. 
 
(6) Requirements for operating the short-term rental. 
 
A. The maximum number of occupants for each short-term rental unit shall be twice 
the number of bedrooms in the short-term rental unit. 
 
B. The maximum number of people allowed at a short-term rental shall be no more 
than twice the number of overnight occupants allowed pursuant to Section 355- 
26.J(6)(A) above. 
 
C. The maximum number of days a dwelling unit or part of a dwelling unit may be 
rented out as a short-term rental is 120 days per year. 
 
D. The  dwelling  in  which  the  short-term  rental  unit  is  located  is  the  primary  
residence  of  the  lessor  short-term  rental  property  and  the  applicant  shall  have  
attested to that fact in an affidavit or affirmation. 
 
E. The  number  of  vehicles  permitted  overnight  is  limited  to  one  (1)  vehicle  per  
bedroom. 
 
F. Required off-street automobile parking spaces for the short-term rental shall be 
equal to the maximum number of motor vehicles permitted, but shall not be less 
than two parking spaces per short term rental unit. 
 
G. There shall be no recreational vehicles located on the short-term rental property 
nor  shall  there  be  any  overnight  camping  in  tents  or  otherwise  used  in  
conjunction with short-term rentals to provide additional sleeping areas. 
 
H. A  written  notice  on  a  form  to  be  provided  by  the  Town,  which  contains  
information about relevant Town parking laws, garbage and recycling rules and 
schedules,  and  snow  removal,  and  identifies  the  party(ies)  responsible  for  
responding to complaints about the short-term rental, shall be completed and left 
at a conspicuous location inside the short-term rental unit and maintained at such 
location by the operator of the short-term rental and displayed at all times. 
  

  
 
I. The lessor of the short-term rental unit or a responsible adult designated by the 
lessor  shall  be  available  during  the  entire  time  of  rental  to  respond  within  30  
minutes   to   complaints   regarding   the   condition,   operation,   or   conduct   of   
occupants and/or guests of the short-term rental unit. Prior to the beginning of 
any  short-  term  rental  period,  the  name(s)  and  telephone  number(s)  of  the  
responsible  party(ies)  must  be  provided  on  the  written  notice  required  by  
Subsection H above. 
 
J. The lessor of a short-term rental shall use best efforts to ensure that the occupants 
and/or  guests  of  the  short-term  rental  do  not  create  unreasonable  noise  or  
disturbance,  engage  in  disorderly  conduct,  violate  any  provision  of  the  Town  
Code,  or  violate  any  law  pertaining  to  disorderly  conduct,  the  consumption  of  
alcohol, or the use of illegal drugs. All occupants of a short-term rental unit shall 
strictly  observe  "Quiet  Hours"  between  the  hours  of  10:00  PM  and  7:00  AM  
daily.  During  Quiet  Hours,  noise  emanating  from  the  short-term  rental  unit,  
including,  but  not  limited  to,  music,  loud  conversations,  amplified  sound,  or  
outdoor activity, shall not be plainly audible at the property line of any adjacent 
residential property. 
 
K. The  lessor  of  a  short-term  rental  or  the  person  designated  by  the  lessor,  upon  
receiving notification that an occupant or tenant of his/her short-term rental unit 
has created unreasonable noise or disturbance, engaged in disorderly conduct, or 
committed  violations  of  the  Town  Code  or  any  applicable  law,  shall  respond  
within 30 minutes of the time the initial call was made, and shall take corrective 
action to address any violation and use best efforts to prevent the recurrence of 
such conduct. 
 
L. A dwelling with a short-term rental unit is subject to periodic inspections by the 
Building  Department  to  ensure  continued  compliance  with  all  applicable  
Building and Fire codes. 
 
M. The person renting out the short-term rental shall maintain a record of the number 
of  guests  and  the  beginning  and  ending  dates  of  each  short-term  rental.  Such  
record shall be submitted to the Building Department along with the application 
to renew the short-term rental registration. 
 
N. The short-term rental may include the use of any recreational facility, such as a 
pool, hot tub, yard, or sports court, any portion of the residential property, but 
neither the short-term rental lessor nor the short-term rental tenant may permit 
the use of such recreational facilities during the short-term rental other than in 
connection  with  the  short-term  rental  or  by  persons  other  than  the  short-term 
rental tenant and the short-term rental tenant’s guests. 
 
(7) Registration procedure. 
 

  
A. The  owner  or  lessee  of  the  dwelling  must  file  a  registration  form  with  the  
Building  Department  containing  an  affidavit  demonstrating  compliance  with  §  
355-26.J(5)   of   the   Town   Code   above.   The   registration   form   must   be   
accompanied by the nonrefundable fee provided in Master Fee Schedule. 
 
B. The  Applicant  must  obtain  an  Operating  Permit  pursuant  to  Section  127-10  of  
the Town Code before the short-term rental commences. A physical inspection 
of the proposed short-term rental unit and the dwelling in which it is located is 
required. Registration shall not be permitted unless the Building Inspector finds 
that the short-term rental complies with § 355-26.J(6) of the Town Code. 
 
C. Registration of the short-term rental will not be permitted if there are unresolved 
Code compliance issues, outstanding Town fines or fees, or unpaid taxes. 
 
D. Registration  of  the  short-term  rental  must  be  renewed  annually,  on  the  same  
terms as the initial registration. Renewal of the Operating Permit is also required 
annually pursuant to Section 127-10 of the Town Code. 
 
E. The  registration  shall  expire  automatically  upon  a  change  in  ownership  of  the  
dwelling in which the short-term rental is located. 
 
F. All persons who operate or advertise short-term rentals shall register the short- 
term rental within 45 days of the date on which this section becomes effective. If 
the  short-term  rental  is  not  registered  within  45  days,  the  person  operating  the  
short-term rental is in violation of this article. 
 
G. Short-term rentals are subject to any intervening changes in the Zoning Code, the 
New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, and the Property 
Maintenance  Code  of  New  York  State,  including  discontinuing  them  as  a  
permitted use. Renewal of registration shall be denied if short-term rentals are no 
longer  a  permitted  use  or  if  the  short-term  rental  no  longer  qualifies  under  the  
requirements of this section. 
 
(8) Enforcement. 
 
Any person who violates any provision of this article, is in violation of this article. 
Violations shall be enforced as provided in Section 355-76. 
 
(9) Revocation of registration. The Town Board may revoke the registration of any short- 
term rental if, after a hearing before the Town Board or a hearing officer designated by 
the  Town  Board,  held  on  not  less  than  15  days’  notice  to  the  lessor  of  the  short-term 
rental, the Town Board finds that the short-term rental materially fails to comply with 
the  requirements  of  this  section.  The  Building  Inspector  may  suspend  the  short-term 
rental  pending  the  determination  by  the  Town  Board  if  the  Building  Inspector  finds  a  
material violation of this section that substantially endangers life, health, or safety. 
 

  
Section 3. Conflicting Standards. 
 
Where the requirements of this Local  Law  impose a  different  restriction  or requirement than 
imposed by other sections of the Code of the Town of North Castle, the Town Law of the State of 
New York or other applicable rules or regulations, the requirements of this Local Law shall prevail. 
 
Section 4. Severability. 
 
The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this local 
law shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given effect without 
such invalid part or parts. 
 
Section 5. Effective Date. 
 
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and filing with the Secretary of 
State. 
 
Dated:  March 11, 2026 