

  
TOWN OF NORTH CASTLE 
 
Local Law No. __1__ For the Year 2026 
Adopted February 11, 2026 
 
A LOCAL LAW to amend the definition of Electric Vehicle Charging Station in Section 
355-4 of the Town Code to permit Level 3 Charging. 
 
 BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of North Castle as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Amend the following definition in Section 355-4 of the North Castle Town Code: 
 
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION -- An electric vehicle charging station, also called 
EV  charging  station,  electric  recharging  point,  charging  point  and  EVSE,  is  an  element  in  an  
infrastructure where the singular purpose is to supply electric energy for the recharging of Electric 
Vehicles. All such stations will include designated and exclusive parking for vehicles charging.  
An  “Electric  Vehicle  Charging  Station”  shall  not  contain  any  surface,  frame,  letter,  figure,  
character,  mark,  plane,  point,  design,  picture,  stroke,  stripe,  reading  matter, material,  fabric,  
device, object, three-dimensional object, or display which bears lettered, numbered, pictorial, or 
sculptured  matter,  designed  to  convey  information  visually  or  to  draw  attention  and  which  is  
exposed to public view.  An electric vehicle charging station shall not account for more than 20% 
of the total off-street parking available on a property.   
 
Section 2.  Amend Section 355-42 (Minor site plan amendment categories) of the North Castle 
Town Code as follows: 
 
O. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations. 
 
Section 3.  Conflicting Standards. 
 
Where the requirements of this Local Law impose a different restriction or requirement than imposed 
by other sections of the Code of the Town of North Castle, the Town Law of the State of New York 
or other applicable rules or regulations, the requirements of this Local Law shall prevail.  
 
Section 4.  Severability. 
 
The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this local law 
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given effect without such 
invalid part or parts. 
 
Section 5.  Effective Date. 
 
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and filing with the Secretary of 
State. 
Dated:  February 11, 2026 